Overseas today,
the vice president met with European allies to discuss the
war in Ukraine ahead of President Trump's summit with Putin.
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelinsky has rejected the idea that his
country would cede land to end the war with Russia.
ABC's Chuck Siverstein has details.
Vice President JD Vance in the UK this weekend meeting with European
allies as President Trump prepares to
meet with Russia's President Vladimir Putin.
A US official telling ABC News the talks produced significant progress toward
President Trump's goal of bringing an end to the war in Ukraine.
President Trump missing his own deadline to impose sanctions on Russia.
Instead agreeing to meet with Putin in Alaska on Friday,
marking the Russian president's first meeting with a major Western
leader since Russia invaded Ukraine more than 3 years ago,
Ukraine's President Zelensky will not be at that summit.
He held a flurry of calls with European leaders.
Zelensky warning everyone can clearly see Putin's.
Tactics.
He fears sanctions and is doing everything to bail on them.
He wants to gain territorial spoils for the 2nd time already.
French President Macron saying the future of
Ukraine cannot be decided without the Ukrainians.
President Trump has suggested a peace deal would involve exchanging territory.
There will be some swapping of territories
to the betterment of both.
According to the Wall Street Journal,
Europe and Ukraine have presented their own peace plan to top US officials.
It stipulates that ceding any land must
be backed by iron-clad security guarantees,
including potential NATO membership for Ukraine,
and rejects Russia's proposal to hand over
Ukrainian-held parts of the Donetsk region.
And although Zelensky will not be at Friday's summit,
President Trump says he remains open to a
trilateral summit with both Putin and Zelensky,
Chuck Severson,
ABC News,
New York.